19:29 my dad who was 26 years of age
then was employed as a security salesman
by a a local small bank and he sold
stocks and bonds but he mostly sold
stocks and when such fall 48% and they
were selling them to people a few months
ago you really don't feel like going out
and facing those same people so I think
my dad probably I'd like to do is they
say now shelter in place which means
stay at home and there really wasn't
that much in our house we just had a
small yard it was wintertime anyway my
dad would have been puttering around the
yard anyway and it wasn't you know the
television wasn't there and and he and
my mother got along very well so under
those conditions if you'll turn to the
next slide I was born about nine months
later so but at that time I was actually
born on August 30th but the stock market
was closed that day and so I'm using the
previous day's figures but they it
wasn't a I didn't notice at the time
that the market was closed but the stock
market had actually recovered over 20%
during that nine and a half month period
or thereabouts people did not think in
the fall of 1930 they did not think they
were in the rate a Great Depression they
thought it was a recession very much
like had occurred at least a dozen times
although not always when stock markets
were important but then we'd had many
processions in the in the United States
over the time and this did not look like
it was something dramatically out of the
ordinary
the but and for a while actually for
about ten days after my birth that view
held on earth and the stock market
actually managed to go up all of one or
two percent there in those ten days but
that's the last day well from that point
if you'll turn to the next slide the
stock market went from a level of to 42
41 which was a noticeable decline
because if somebody had given me a
thousand dollars on the day I was born
and I'd bought stock with it on both the
Dow average my thousand dollars would
have become one hundred and seventy
dollars in in less than two years and
that is something that none of us era
ever experienced that we may have had it
with one stock occasionally but but in
terms of having a broad range of America
mark now and 83% in two years and marked
down 89 percent of the peak that was in
September 39 1929 was extraordinary and
in that intervening period less than one
year after I was born is slightly less
than one year my dad went to the bank
where he worked and had his accountant
and of course the bank had a sign on a
closed and so he had no job and he had
two kids at that point and his father
had a grocery store but Charlie and I
both worked for my grandfather Charlie
worked there in 1940 I worked there in
1941 so we didn't know each other but
but my grandfather said to my father
that don't worry about your groceries
I already says I'll just let your bill
run that was god that's not exactly he
was he cared about his family but it
wasn't gonna go crazy and one of the
things is I look back on that period
ninh I decided and I don't think the
economists generally like to give it
that much of a point of importance but
but if we had the FDIC ten years earlier
we the FDIC started on January 1st 1934
it was part of the sweeping legislation
that took place when Roosevelt came in
but if we'd had the FDIC we would have
had a much much different experience I
believe in the in the Great Depression
people blaming on smooth smooth Hall
here and I mean they they there's all
kinds of things and the margin
requirements in 29 and all of those
things entered into creating a recession
but if you have over 4,000 banks fail
that's 4,000 local experiences where
people save and save and save and put
their money away and then someday they
reach for it and it's gone and that
happens you know in all 48 states that
happens to your neighbors and it happens
to your relatives it it has to I'm gonna
effect on the psyche that's incredible
so one very very very good thing that
came out of the depression in my view is
the FDIC and it would have been a
somewhat different world I'm sure if the
bank failures hadn't just rolled across
this country and and and with people
that thought that they were savers find
out that they had
nothing when they went there and there
was a sign that said closed incidentally
the fdic I think very few people know
this but uh or at least they don't
appreciate it but the FDIC has not
costing the American taxpayer a dime
I mean its expenses have been paid its
losses have been paid all through
assessments on banks has been a mutual
insurance company of the banks backed by
the federal government and associated
with the federal government but now it
holds a hundred billion dollars and that
consists of premiums that were paid in
an investment income on the premiums
less the expenses and paying of all the
losses and think of the incredible
amount of peace of mind
that's good that's given to people that
were not similarly situated and when the
Great Depression hit so the Great
Depression went on and it lasted him a
very long time but it lasted a lot
longer in the minds of people than it
did actually in its effects World War
two came along and on sort of an
involuntary manner we adopted
Keynesianism we started running fiscal
deficits of course that we're absolutely
huge and took our debt up to a
percentage of GDP which we've never
reached that never reached before and
never ever since so we had an enormous
economic recovery but the minds of
people had been so scarred the memories
parents told their children 1929 became
a symbol in people's minds I mean if you
said 1929
it was like saying 1776 or 1492 I mean
everybody knew exactly what you were
talking about and it affected stock
prices in a rather remarkable way to the
point if you'll change to the next slide
it was January 4th of 1951 that the kid
who was born on August 30th in 1930 had
finished college before the stock market
got back to where it was at that earlier
time
so take the years from 19:20 19:30 or
1929 released the 1951 or take the year
from my birth 20 years and bear in mind
that you know the country was only a
hundred and forty years old when this
started that that's 20 years out of this
amazing 231 year lifetime of our country
that was flat out you know a time of for
a long time of no economic growth and no
feeling my people in terms about who
else of the country the about what
American economy was worth what all
these corporations that were doing
far far far better than they were long
ago but it took all of that time to
restore in the market a price level uh
that was equal to but it was when I was
born 20 years earlier
so if you think about the fact that
we're enduring a few months and will
endure somewhat many more months but and
we don't know how it comes out and
people in the 30s didn't know how it was
going to come out but they endured
Sabir prospered and the American miracle
continued but it's interesting in that I
actually don't have a slide for the next
one because last night I was thinking
after all the slides had been prepared I
was actually thinking about this a
little late a little bit and I
remembered that in nineteen at the start
of 1954 the stock market was the Dow was
only at about 280 and I remember 1954
because it was the best year I've ever
had in the stock market and the Dow went
from essentially what do do lady or
thereabouts at the start of the year to
a little over 400 at the end of the year
and when I went to 400 as soon as it
went across 381 that famous figure from
1929 when I went to 400 ah this will be
hard for some of you to believe but
everybody wondered is this 1929 all over
again and it seems a little far-fetched
because it was a different country in
1954 but that was the common question
and it actually achieved that with it
was you know it achieved such a level of
worry about whether we were about to
jump off another cliff just because the
3:81 of 1929 have been succeeded
exceeded that they held senator
Fulbright both Fulbright of Arkansas who
became very famous later in terms of the
Foreign Relations Committee but he had
of the Senate Banking Committee and he
called a special her special
investigation
and he calls it the what do you call it
the stock market study but it really as
you if you read through it he really was
questioning whether we had built another
house of cards again and on his
committee it's interesting to see that
in Senate Finance Committee one of the
members was Prescott Bush the the father
of George HW Bush and grandfather of
George W Bush and had some illustrious
names and his committee in March of 1955
with the Dow at 4:05 assembled 20 of the
best minds in the United States to
testify as to whether we were going
crazy again because the market was at
400 the Dow was at 400 and we'd gotten
in this incredible trouble before but
that was the mindset of the country it's
it incredible we didn't really believe
America was what it was and my boss
reason I'm familiar with this
thousand-page book that I have here I
found it last night
the library was that I was working in
New York for one of the 20 people that
was called down to testify before
senator Fulbright and he testified right
before Bill Martin who was running the
Federal Reserve testified and right
after general wood who's running sure's
testify Sears was very very important
then then and Bill Martin of course of
the fellow that longest-running chairman
in the history of the Fed and he's the
one that gave the famous quote about the
function of the Fed was to take away the
bunch of balls just when the party
started to get really warmed up but Ben
Graham my boss sent me over to the
Public Library in New York and to gather
some information for him something he
could do in five minutes with the
computer now and I got something and he
went to testify and uh on page 545 of
this book
look I didn't have to go through it all
but he had a quote which I remember and
I remember because Ben Graham was the
one of the three smartest people I've
met in my life and he was the dean of
people in securities business he wrote
the classic security analysis book in
1934 he wrote the book that changed my
life
telogen Buster in 1949 he was
unbelievably smart and when he testified
the Dow at 404 he had one line in there
right toward the start and his written
testimony and he said the stock market
is high looks high it is high but it's
not as high as it looks
but he said it is high and since that
time if we'll turn to the next slide
of course we felt the American tailwind
at full force and and the Dow well let's
see Lee yeah when the Daoist went down
friday but when we made the slide it was
about 24,000 so you're looking at a
market today that has produced $100 for
every dollar all you did was had to
believe in American just by a
cross-section of America you didn't
didn't have to read The Wall Street
Journal you didn't have to look up the
price of your stock you didn't have to
pay a lot of money and feast anybody you
just had to believe that the American
miracle was intact but you'd had this
testing period between 1929 and and well
really certainly 1954 is indicated by
what happened when and got back up to
380 you had this testing period and
people really they'd lost faith to some
degree they just didn't see the
potential of what America could do and
we found that that
nothing to stop America when you get
right down to it and it's been true all
along and they have been interrupted
with the scariest of scenarios when you
had a war with one group of states
fighting another group of states and it
may have been tested again and the Great
Depression and it may be tested now to
some degree but in the end the answer is
never bet against America
and that in my view is as true today as
it was in 1789 and even was true at the
bring the Civil War and the depths of
the depression